packages/docs/pages/architecture.mdx, before:

import ArchitectureDiagram from '../components/ArchitectureDiagram'

# Architecture

## Overview

The application has two main components: `@privatefolio/backend` and `@privatefolio/frontend`.
These two components are bundled together as a Docker image, or as a desktop app using Electron.

The frontend is a React application, and the backend is a Node.js/Bun server that uses REST and WebSocket APIs to communicate with the frontend.

<ArchitectureDiagram />

## Project structure

Privatefolio is structured as a monorepo, using Lerna for orchestration and Yarn for package management.

- **Root Config:** Yarn workspaces (v1.22.22) with nohoist, AGPL-3.0 license, Lerna (v8.1.3) for monorepo management, and TypeScript for type safety across all packages.

### Directory Structure

```text
privatefolio/
├── packages/
│   ├── backend/            # Node.js/Bun server with REST & WebSocket APIs
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── api/            # HTTP & WebSocket API definitions
│   │   │   ├── config/         # Environment and settings loaders
│   │   │   ├── sqlite/         # Schema and migration logic
│   │   │   ├── utils/          # Helper functions
│   │   │   ├── backend-server.ts  # HTTP/WebSocket server implementation
│   │   │   ├── backend-relayer.ts # Task scheduler and data aggregator
│   │   │   └── start.ts        # Entry point wiring server + relayer
│   │   ├── data/               # Runtime database and log files
│   │   ├── build/              # Compiled outputs for production
│   │   ├── test/               # Vitest test suites organized by feature
│   │   └── package.json        # Scripts, dependencies, and build setup
│   ├── frontend/           # React-based UI with Vite and TypeScript
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── components/     # Reusable UI elements (charts, tables, forms)
│   │   │   ├── pages/          # Page components (Portfolio, Transactions, Settings)
│   │   │   ├── stores/         # Nanostores state and persistence logic
│   │   │   ├── api/            # REST/WebSocket client setup and hooks
│   │   │   ├── hooks/          # Custom React hooks (data fetching, IPC)
│   │   │   ├── utils/          # Utility functions and helpers
│   │   │   ├── workers/        # WebWorker-based SQLite integration
│   │   │   ├── App.tsx         # App shell and routing
│   │   │   └── main.tsx        # Entry point
│   │   ├── public/             # Static assets and PWA manifest
│   │   ├── build/              # Compiled bundles and assets
│   │   ├── vite.config.ts      # Vite build configuration
│   │   └── package.json        # Frontend dependencies and scripts
│   ├── electron/           # Desktop application wrapper
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── backend-manager.ts  # Backend process manager
│   │   │   ├── ipc-main.ts     # IPC communication setup
│   │   │   ├── preload.ts      # Preload script for renderer
│   │   │   ├── start.ts        # Main entry point
│   │   │   └── auto-updater.ts # Auto-update functionality
│   │   ├── out/                # Packaged app output
│   │   └── package.json        # Electron configuration and scripts
│   ├── expo/               # Mobile app (React Native with Expo)
│   │   ├── app/                # App entry point and screens
│   │   ├── assets/             # Mobile app assets
│   │   ├── app.json            # Expo configuration
│   │   ├── eas.json            # EAS build/submit profiles
│   │   └── package.json        # Mobile app dependencies
│   ├── commons/            # Shared utilities and interfaces
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   └── utils.ts        # Common utility functions
│   │   └── package.json        # Shared dependencies
│   ├── commons-node/       # Node.js-specific shared utilities
│   └── docs/               # Documentation site (Vocs)
│       ├── pages/              # Documentation pages
│       ├── components/         # Doc-specific components
│       └── package.json        # Documentation dependencies
├── .github/
│   ├── workflows/          # GitHub Actions CI/CD
│   └── prompts/            # AI agent prompts and guidelines
├── lerna.json              # Lerna monorepo configuration
├── package.json            # Root workspace configuration
└── yarn.lock               # Dependency lock file
```

## Packages Summary

- **`packages/frontend`**
  - **Description & Key Tech:** React-based UI that provides the user interface using Material-UI, Vite, and TypeScript.
  - **Core Features & Tools:**
    - Interactive portfolio visualization with lightweight-charts
    - Command palette (`kbar`) and comprehensive search functionality
    - WebWorker-based SQLite integration for client-side data processing
    - State management with nanostores for reactive updates

- **`packages/backend`**
  - **Description & Key Tech:** Node.js/Bun server providing data processing, API integration, and SQLite database management.
  - **Core Features & Tools:**
    - Multi-chain cryptocurrency data aggregation and processing
    - SQLite database for persistent storage with cross-platform compatibility
    - Scheduled tasks with Croner for periodic data updates
    - Support for both Bun and Node.js SQLite implementations

- **`packages/electron`**
  - **Description & Key Tech:** Desktop application wrapper using Electron with platform-specific optimizations.
  - **Core Features & Tools:**
    - Cross-platform desktop integration (Windows, Linux, macOS)
    - Local file system access for database and configuration
    - Auto-launch capabilities and system tray integration
    - Inter-process communication between frontend and backend

## Workflow & Integration

- **Development:** `yarn dev` runs parallel development servers for frontend and backend, `yarn dev:electron` includes Electron.
- **Building:** `yarn build` for all packages, platform-specific binaries with `yarn bundle:[win|linux|mac]`.
- **Testing:** Comprehensive test suite with `yarn test` and `yarn test:bun` for Bun-specific tests, continuous integration with `yarn test:ci`.
- **Integration:** Packages share common TypeScript interfaces and utilities, with backend exposing APIs consumed by frontend.

## Deployment

- **Frontend:**
  - Compiled with Vite for optimal bundle size and performance
  - Can be deployed as a static site or packaged within Electron

- **Backend:**
  - Runs as a local service within the Electron app
  - Optimized for Bun runtime with fallbacks for Node.js compatibility

- **Electron:**
  - Windows builds with Nsis installer, Linux with DEB packages, macOS with DMG
  - Automated deployment process via GitHub Actions triggered by version changes (`yarn new-version`)
  - Binaries published to GitHub releases for user distribution

Commit message:

Add description to doc pages

packages/docs/pages/architecture.mdx, after:

---
description: System architecture overview of Privatefolio's monorepo structure and component integration
---

import ArchitectureDiagram from '../components/ArchitectureDiagram'

# Architecture

## Overview

The application has two main components: `@privatefolio/backend` and `@privatefolio/frontend`.
These two components are bundled together as a Docker image, or as a desktop app using Electron.

The frontend is a React application, and the backend is a Node.js/Bun server that uses REST and WebSocket APIs to communicate with the frontend.

<ArchitectureDiagram />

## Project structure

Privatefolio is structured as a monorepo, using Lerna for orchestration and Yarn for package management.

- **Root Config:** Yarn workspaces (v1.22.22) with nohoist, AGPL-3.0 license, Lerna (v8.1.3) for monorepo management, and TypeScript for type safety across all packages.

### Directory Structure

```text
privatefolio/
├── packages/
│   ├── backend/            # Node.js/Bun server with REST & WebSocket APIs
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── api/            # HTTP & WebSocket API definitions
│   │   │   ├── config/         # Environment and settings loaders
│   │   │   ├── sqlite/         # Schema and migration logic
│   │   │   ├── utils/          # Helper functions
│   │   │   ├── backend-server.ts  # HTTP/WebSocket server implementation
│   │   │   ├── backend-relayer.ts # Task scheduler and data aggregator
│   │   │   └── start.ts        # Entry point wiring server + relayer
│   │   ├── data/               # Runtime database and log files
│   │   ├── build/              # Compiled outputs for production
│   │   ├── test/               # Vitest test suites organized by feature
│   │   └── package.json        # Scripts, dependencies, and build setup
│   ├── frontend/           # React-based UI with Vite and TypeScript
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── components/     # Reusable UI elements (charts, tables, forms)
│   │   │   ├── pages/          # Page components (Portfolio, Transactions, Settings)
│   │   │   ├── stores/         # Nanostores state and persistence logic
│   │   │   ├── api/            # REST/WebSocket client setup and hooks
│   │   │   ├── hooks/          # Custom React hooks (data fetching, IPC)
│   │   │   ├── utils/          # Utility functions and helpers
│   │   │   ├── workers/        # WebWorker-based SQLite integration
│   │   │   ├── App.tsx         # App shell and routing
│   │   │   └── main.tsx        # Entry point
│   │   ├── public/             # Static assets and PWA manifest
│   │   ├── build/              # Compiled bundles and assets
│   │   ├── vite.config.ts      # Vite build configuration
│   │   └── package.json        # Frontend dependencies and scripts
│   ├── electron/           # Desktop application wrapper
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── backend-manager.ts  # Backend process manager
│   │   │   ├── ipc-main.ts     # IPC communication setup
│   │   │   ├── preload.ts      # Preload script for renderer
│   │   │   ├── start.ts        # Main entry point
│   │   │   └── auto-updater.ts # Auto-update functionality
│   │   ├── out/                # Packaged app output
│   │   └── package.json        # Electron configuration and scripts
│   ├── expo/               # Mobile app (React Native with Expo)
│   │   ├── app/                # App entry point and screens
│   │   ├── assets/             # Mobile app assets
│   │   ├── app.json            # Expo configuration
│   │   ├── eas.json            # EAS build/submit profiles
│   │   └── package.json        # Mobile app dependencies
│   ├── commons/            # Shared utilities and interfaces
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   └── utils.ts        # Common utility functions
│   │   └── package.json        # Shared dependencies
│   ├── commons-node/       # Node.js-specific shared utilities
│   └── docs/               # Documentation site (Vocs)
│       ├── pages/              # Documentation pages
│       ├── components/         # Doc-specific components
│       └── package.json        # Documentation dependencies
├── .github/
│   ├── workflows/          # GitHub Actions CI/CD
│   └── prompts/            # AI agent prompts and guidelines
├── lerna.json              # Lerna monorepo configuration
├── package.json            # Root workspace configuration
└── yarn.lock               # Dependency lock file
```

## Packages Summary

- **`packages/frontend`**
  - **Description & Key Tech:** React-based UI that provides the user interface using Material-UI, Vite, and TypeScript.
  - **Core Features & Tools:**
    - Interactive portfolio visualization with lightweight-charts
    - Command palette (`kbar`) and comprehensive search functionality
    - WebWorker-based SQLite integration for client-side data processing
    - State management with nanostores for reactive updates

- **`packages/backend`**
  - **Description & Key Tech:** Node.js/Bun server providing data processing, API integration, and SQLite database management.
  - **Core Features & Tools:**
    - Multi-chain cryptocurrency data aggregation and processing
    - SQLite database for persistent storage with cross-platform compatibility
    - Scheduled tasks with Croner for periodic data updates
    - Support for both Bun and Node.js SQLite implementations

- **`packages/electron`**
  - **Description & Key Tech:** Desktop application wrapper using Electron with platform-specific optimizations.
  - **Core Features & Tools:**
    - Cross-platform desktop integration (Windows, Linux, macOS)
    - Local file system access for database and configuration
    - Auto-launch capabilities and system tray integration
    - Inter-process communication between frontend and backend

## Workflow & Integration

- **Development:** `yarn dev` runs parallel development servers for frontend and backend, `yarn dev:electron` includes Electron.
- **Building:** `yarn build` for all packages, platform-specific binaries with `yarn bundle:[win|linux|mac]`.
- **Testing:** Comprehensive test suite with `yarn test` and `yarn test:bun` for Bun-specific tests, continuous integration with `yarn test:ci`.
- **Integration:** Packages share common TypeScript interfaces and utilities, with backend exposing APIs consumed by frontend.

## Deployment

- **Frontend:**
  - Compiled with Vite for optimal bundle size and performance
  - Can be deployed as a static site or packaged within Electron

- **Backend:**
  - Runs as a local service within the Electron app
  - Optimized for Bun runtime with fallbacks for Node.js compatibility

- **Electron:**
  - Windows builds with Nsis installer, Linux with DEB packages, macOS with DMG
  - Automated deployment process via GitHub Actions triggered by version changes (`yarn new-version`)
  - Binaries published to GitHub releases for user distribution
