packages/docs/pages/comparison-table.md, before:

---
title: Comparison table
---

## Comparison table

| Feature          | Privatefolio          | Rotki                      | Ghostfolio                           | Midday                       | DeBank                 | CoinStats                   | Delta                        |
| ---------------- | --------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ---------------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| **Type**         | AI Wealth Manager     | Open-source crypto tracker | Open-source wealth manager           | Open-source business finance | DeFi portfolio tracker | Freemium crypto tracker     | Investment tracker           |
| **Hosting**      | Self-hosted, Cloud    | Self-hosted                | Self-hosted, Cloud                   | Self-hosted, Cloud           | Cloud                  | Cloud                       | Cloud                        |
| **License**      | AGPL-3.0              | AGPL-3.0                   | AGPL-3.0                             | AGPL-3.0                     | Proprietary            | Proprietary                 | Proprietary                  |
| **AI assistant** | ✅ Tool-based         | 🟡                         | 🟡                                   | ✅ Yes                       | 🟡                     | 🟡                          | 🟡                           |
| **Desktop apps** | ✅ Yes                | ✅ Yes                     | 🟡                                   | 🟡 Mac                       | 🟡                     | 🟡 Mac                      | 🟡 Win, Mac                  |
| **Mobile apps**  | ✅ Web, Native (wip)  | 🟡                         | ✅ Web                               | 🟡                           | ✅ Native              | ✅ Native                   | ✅ Native                    |
| **Multi-chain**  | ✅ Multiple           | ✅ Multiple                | ✅ Multiple (coins; not chain-level) | 🟡                           | ✅ EVM networks        | ✅ 100+ chains; 20k+ coins  | ✅ 10,000+ coins             |
| **Multi-chain**  | ✅ Multiple           | ✅ Multiple                | 🟡                                   | 🟡                           | ✅ EVM networks only   | ✅ 20k+ coins, 120+ chains  | ✅ 10k+ crypto, 100k+ assets |
| **DeFi support** | 🟡 Limited (wip)      | ✅ Advanced protocols      | ✅ Basic                             | 🟡                           | ✅ Advanced            | ✅ Advanced (1k+ protocols) | ✅ Basic                     |
| **Extensions**   | ✅ Extensions         | ✅ Modules                 | 🟡                                   | 🟡                           | 🟡                     | 🟡                          | 🟡                           |
| **Privacy**      | ✅ Self-hosted option | ✅ Self-hosted option      | ✅ Self-hosted option                | ✅ Self-hosted option        | ⚠️ Cloud-dependent     | ⚠️ Cloud-dependent          | ⚠️ Cloud-dependent           |
| **Exploit-free** | ✅                    | ✅                         | ✅                                   | ✅ ☑                        | ✅                     | 🚨 1.6k wallets hacked      | ✅                           |
| **Pricing**      | Free, Premium         | Free, Premium              | Free, Premium                        | Free                         | Free                   | Free, Premium               | Free, Premium                |

Commit message:

Add description to doc pages

packages/docs/pages/comparison-table.md, after:

---
title: Comparison table
description: Compare Privatefolio with other portfolio tracking and wealth management solutions
---

## Comparison table

| Feature          | Privatefolio          | Rotki                      | Ghostfolio                           | Midday                       | DeBank                 | CoinStats                   | Delta                        |
| ---------------- | --------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ---------------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| **Type**         | AI Wealth Manager     | Open-source crypto tracker | Open-source wealth manager           | Open-source business finance | DeFi portfolio tracker | Freemium crypto tracker     | Investment tracker           |
| **Hosting**      | Self-hosted, Cloud    | Self-hosted                | Self-hosted, Cloud                   | Self-hosted, Cloud           | Cloud                  | Cloud                       | Cloud                        |
| **License**      | AGPL-3.0              | AGPL-3.0                   | AGPL-3.0                             | AGPL-3.0                     | Proprietary            | Proprietary                 | Proprietary                  |
| **AI assistant** | ✅ Tool-based         | 🟡                         | 🟡                                   | ✅ Yes                       | 🟡                     | 🟡                          | 🟡                           |
| **Desktop apps** | ✅ Yes                | ✅ Yes                     | 🟡                                   | 🟡 Mac                       | 🟡                     | 🟡 Mac                      | 🟡 Win, Mac                  |
| **Mobile apps**  | ✅ Web, Native (wip)  | 🟡                         | ✅ Web                               | 🟡                           | ✅ Native              | ✅ Native                   | ✅ Native                    |
| **Multi-chain**  | ✅ Multiple           | ✅ Multiple                | ✅ Multiple (coins; not chain-level) | 🟡                           | ✅ EVM networks        | ✅ 100+ chains; 20k+ coins  | ✅ 10,000+ coins             |
| **Multi-chain**  | ✅ Multiple           | ✅ Multiple                | 🟡                                   | 🟡                           | ✅ EVM networks only   | ✅ 20k+ coins, 120+ chains  | ✅ 10k+ crypto, 100k+ assets |
| **DeFi support** | 🟡 Limited (wip)      | ✅ Advanced protocols      | ✅ Basic                             | 🟡                           | ✅ Advanced            | ✅ Advanced (1k+ protocols) | ✅ Basic                     |
| **Extensions**   | ✅ Extensions         | ✅ Modules                 | 🟡                                   | 🟡                           | 🟡                     | 🟡                          | 🟡                           |
| **Privacy**      | ✅ Self-hosted option | ✅ Self-hosted option      | ✅ Self-hosted option                | ✅ Self-hosted option        | ⚠️ Cloud-dependent     | ⚠️ Cloud-dependent          | ⚠️ Cloud-dependent           |
| **Exploit-free** | ✅                    | ✅                         | ✅                                   | ✅ ☑                        | ✅                     | 🚨 1.6k wallets hacked      | ✅                           |
| **Pricing**      | Free, Premium         | Free, Premium              | Free, Premium                        | Free                         | Free                   | Free, Premium               | Free, Premium                |
