packages/docs/pages/installation.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'vocs/components'

# Installation

To install the Privatefolio desktop app, you can either download the apps from [privatefolio.xyz/downloads](https://privatefolio.xyz/downloads) or from [GitHub releases](https://github.com/privatefolio/privatefolio/releases).

Each release contains the binaries for Windows, Linux and Mac.

On Windows, you can run the `Privatefolio-<version>.Setup.exe` executable directly.

On Linux, you can run `sudo dpkg -i privatefolio_<version>_amd64.deb` to install the package.

On Mac, download the dmg for your platform and run the installer.

<Callout type="info">
  Privatefolio Desktop is a full standalone app with a built-in backend server, it has everything you need.
</Callout>

<Callout type="note">
  Using the PrivateCloud™ service is completely optional, but useful: for example using Privatefolio on mobile devices which 1) cannot run the backend module at the moment and 2) can run into battery restrictions leading to poor UX.
</Callout>

Commit message:

Add description to doc pages

packages/docs/pages/installation.mdx, after:

---
description: Download and install Privatefolio desktop app for Windows, Linux and Mac
---

import { Callout } from 'vocs/components'

# Installation

To install the Privatefolio desktop app, you can either download the apps from [privatefolio.xyz/downloads](https://privatefolio.xyz/downloads) or from [GitHub releases](https://github.com/privatefolio/privatefolio/releases).

Each release contains the binaries for Windows, Linux and Mac.

On Windows, you can run the `Privatefolio-<version>.Setup.exe` executable directly.

On Linux, you can run `sudo dpkg -i privatefolio_<version>_amd64.deb` to install the package.

On Mac, download the dmg for your platform and run the installer.

<Callout type="info">
  Privatefolio Desktop is a full standalone app with a built-in backend server, it has everything you need.
</Callout>

<Callout type="note">
  Using the PrivateCloud™ service is completely optional, but useful: for example using Privatefolio on mobile devices which 1) cannot run the backend module at the moment and 2) can run into battery restrictions leading to poor UX.
</Callout>
